# Cycling-route-suggestion-using-Metaphor-and-Palm

Name: Pranjal Umesh Kalekar
Email: kalekar.p@northeastern.edu
Status (junior, senior, graduated): 2nd Year Graduate Student MS in Data Analytics Engineering
Link to Project Github: https://github.com/Pranjal10052000/Cycling-route-suggestion-using-Metaphor-and-Palm


Project Name: Regional Cycling Route Suggestions

1. Brief Explanation of Project: 
This project contains a Python notebook containing a function that uses metaphor’s optimized search results and Google’s generative AI LLM to generate customized, case-specific regional road cycling route suggestions. The function gives route suggestions using the results from Metaphor’s neural search and uses the LLM to parse it and provide a structured output that can be displayed in various formats (I displayed using the basic LLM output here).
2. How you Built it:
I conceived this idea when I learned about Google’s new LLM, PaLM. When I was given the unique opportunity to create an open-ended project by and for Metaphor, as I mentioned in my application I am  relatively new to LLMs and integration with SEO. But the biggest coincidence happened when I came across the latest post by Andrew Ng, founder of DeepLearning.AI (he doesn’t need an introduction!)mentioning about launching a limited time course “Pair Programming with a Large Language Model,” by Google's Laurence Moroney. 

As I assured you, even if I am new to LLMs, I have the eagerness to learn and, in keeping my promise, I completed the course. Among several ideas I brainstormed including,

Regional Mental Health resource suggestion
Recent non fraudulent refugee camp donation alternatives for US residents
Regional Cycling Route Suggestions with specifications provided by User

I chose Regional Cycling Route Suggestions with specifications provided by user as it involved several parameters making it more challenging to work on.

To begin with I started by getting API keys for both PaLM and Metaphor, creating the Agents and giving parameters. 
I used palm to get the customized recommendation using the details provided by the user in stdin, this can be done by any LLM model and does not require time specific information. 
But for the next part, which is parsing the internet and getting the most updated route information which is done by using the query generated by palm in the previous step. This is a time sensitive step and helps generate the most recent info.
For the contents extracted from the result by Metaphor, i combined the parsed webpages and fed that back to palm again to get the structured output with required info like 
Name | Distance (mi) | Elevation (ft) | Link
The function does scaping, extracting and structuring on its own displaying well labeled and focused information.



3. Challenges/Feedback on the API:
I faced a challenge in deciding which typeof search i should go for considering all the ideas i brainstormed, to consider the best one i had to go through multiple trials but i went through the documentation provided by metaphor on the website and it cleared my vision.
LLMs are expensive :’\
I was trying to display the results on an interactive webpage using flask, but was facing an error. Even after submitting this task I'll be working on it and I'll put the updated folder(including current results) on the same GitHUb repo!


4. Why you’re interested in Metaphor :) 
I really enjoyed working with Metaphor;  I could visibly see the difference between Google and Metaphor search (both keyword and neural) and the different projects I can work on. Even though I had a chance to submit only one project, I will be working on the ideas I mentioned earlier(I’ve already started working on them 😀) so that I can discuss it more during our project discussions.
I want to delve deep into the backend of Metaphor as well, and contribute to the optimization and reach.
Can’t wait to discuss the infinite development ideas!!




